Replace outdated factories info with sharing workspace with devfile URL (#1745)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/contributor-guide/partials/proc_adding-a-che-theia-plug-in-into-a-workspace.adoc

You can add Che-Theia plug-in into the Che-Theia IDE in three ways:

* At Theia runtime
* By configuring a workspace devfile

> * By preparing shareable Devfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* By preparing shareable devfile
```

[id="adding-a-plug-in-at-runtime_{context}"]
== Adding a plug-in at Theia runtime

This method adds a plug-in to an already running workspace. The plug-in is not added permanently; it is removed when the workspace stops. This is a good method to test a plug-in without affecting the permanent workspace configuration.

> . Run the `Deploy Plugin by Id` command, and specify the ID of the plug-in that you want to add to the workspace. A plug-in ID can be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure

* Run the `Deploy Plugin by Id` command, and specify the ID of the plug-in to add to the workspace. A plug-in ID can be:
```

Reviewer 2: This method actually downloads and deploys a VS Code extension, not a plugin (in term of Che).
So, this section should be rephrased somehow. At least all the `plugin` should be replaced on `VS Code extension`

Reviewer 2: There is some mess with namings in Che-Theia.  Command `Deploy Plugin by Id` deploys VS Code extension, but for Che-Theia it's sounds like a plugin.

Author: Applied

Author: We agreed with Vitaliy that it makes more sense to create a separate issue and address confusion between plugin and VSCode Extension

> +
> ** A local directory with plug-ins. All the plug-in binaries (`.theia` files) in the specified directory would be loaded. Example: `local-dir:///home/theia/plugins/`.
> 
> ** VS Code extension link. To obtain the link, go to the VS Code marketplace, find the needed extension, copy its ID, and append the ID to the `vscode:extension/` prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
A local directory with plug-ins:: {prod-short} loads all the plug-in binaries (`.theia` files) in the specified directory. 
+
.Adding the local directory `/home/theia/plugins/`
====
----
local-dir:///home/theia/plugins/
----
====
+
VS Code extension link:: To obtain the link, go to the VS Code marketplace, find the needed extension, copy its ID, and append the ID to the `vscode:extension/` prefix.
+
.VS Code extension link for the link:https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-xml[XML language server] plug-in 
====
----
vscode:extension/redhat.vscode-xml
----
====
+
Link to plug-in binaries (`.theia` files):: Can be both HTTP and HTTPS.
+
.Link to plug-in binaries
====
----
https://domain.net/path/plugin.theia
----
====
```

Author: applied

+

> For example, for the link:https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-xml[XML language server] plug-in, it is: `vscode:extension/redhat.vscode-xml`.
> 
> ** Link to plug-in binaries (`.theia` files). Can be both HTTP and HTTPS. Example: `https://domain.net/path/plugin.theia`.

Reviewer: These lines are made obsolete by the previous suggestion, but GitHub UI doesn't handle well multi-lines suggestions when deleted lines are involved. 
```suggestion
```

Author: Removed

> To check if the plug-in loaded successful, open the *Plugins panel* (*View* > *Plugins* in the main menu) and search for the plug-in in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Verification steps

* Open the *Plugins panel* (*View* > *Plugins* in the main menu) and search for the plug-in in the list.
```

Author: applied

[id="adding-a-plug-in-by-configuring-a-workspace_{context}"]
== Adding a plug-in by configuring a workspace devfile

This method is useful when you need to add plug-ins from a non-default registry.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Procedure

```

Author: Added

. Navigate to the *Workspaces* tab in the dashboard.
. Select the workspace to which you want to add the plug-in.
. Switch to the *Devfile* tab, and find the `components` section.
. To add plug-ins, append your plugin component to the `components` section. A record has the following format:
+

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[subs="+quotes,macros,attributes"]
----
```

Author: applied

components:
  - type: chePlugin
    reference: >-

>       <registry-base-uri>/v3/plugins/<plugin-publisher>/<plugin-name>/<version>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      __<registry-base-uri>__/v3/plugins/__<plugin-publisher>__/__<plugin-name>__/__<plugin-version>__
```

----
+

> Reference URL examples:
> +
> * pass:[https://custom-registry/v3/plugins/custom-plugin-name/0.0.1/]
> * pass:[https://raw.githubusercontent.com/username/che-custom-plugins/master/v3/plugins/custom-plugin-name/0.0.1/meta.yaml]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.`chePlugin` reference URL pointing to a plug-in `meta.yaml`
====
----
https://custom-registry/v3/plugins/custom-plugin-name/0.0.1/
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/username/che-custom-plugins/master/v3/plugins/custom-plugin-name/0.0.1/meta.yaml
----
====
```

Author: It seems to be not URL but URLs, I'm not sure if we need provide them as separate examples or one with URLs in title

Author: I've applied:
```
.`chePlugin` reference URLs pointing to a plug-in `meta.yaml`
====
----
https://custom-registry/v3/plugins/custom-plugin-name/0.0.1/
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/username/che-custom-plugins/master/v3/plugins/custom-plugin-name/0.0.1/meta.yaml
----
====
```
But can split them to separate example, or just replace URLs -> URL if needed.

[id="sharing-a-plug-in-with-factory-url_{context}"]

> == By preparing shareable Devfile

Author: This section is mostly copy/paste from removed factory section where I replaces removed persisted factories with che-host/f?url=... link.
For me, it does not seem detailed and clear enough but I don't have any experience with writing plugins and not sure how it can be made better.

> == By preparing shareable Devfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Adding a plug-in by preparing shareable devfile
```

This approach brings an advantage of other users being able to contribute to the development, provided they have write access to the repository with the plug-in.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Procedure

```

. Create a devfile with the plug-in development environment and share it with reviewers to provide them with the same environment. Reviewers then must build and run the plug-in to test it, using a script or a set of instructions on how to include the build in the plug-in repository.

> . Share with reviwers factory link with a URL to a repository with devfile or a direct URL to content of the devfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Share with reviewers factory link with a URL to a repository with devfile or a direct URL to content of the devfile.
```

+

> Reference URL examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: done

+

> * {prod-url-secure}/f?url=https://github.com/eclipse/che
> * {prod-url-secure}/f?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse/che/master/devfile.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.`chePlugin` reference URL pointing to a repository containing a devfile
====
{prod-url}/f?url=https://github.com/eclipse/che
====
+
.`chePlugin` reference URL pointing to a devfile
====
{prod-url}/f?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse/che/master/devfile.yaml
====
```

Author: That's not chePlugin reference but a link to Che that will create a workspace via Factory flow with cheplugin inside after plugin author added it into devfile :boom:

Author: I've applied

```
.Factory URL pointing to a repository containing a devfile
====
{prod-url}/f?url=https://github.com/eclipse/che
====
+
.Factory URL pointing to a devfile
====
{prod-url}/f?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse/che/master/devfile.yaml
====
```
